2020 International Conference for Emerging Technology (INCET) 
Belgaum, India. Jun 5-7, 2020

Loan Default Forecasting using Data Mining

Bhoomi Patel1
, Harshal Patil2
, Jovita Hembram3
, Shree Jaswal4
1,2,3,4Department of Information Technology, St. Francis Institute of Technology, Mumbai, India 1
bhoomi16patel98@gmail.com, 2
harshalpatil31598@gmail.com, 3
jovita.hembram04@gmail.com, 4
shreejaswal@sfit.ac.in

literature :

proposed a model for the loan approval 
authorities which would help them judge the credibility of customers who have applied for the loan, hence increasing 
the chances of their loans being paid back in time. Their 
model comprises of three components

Pre-processing-which is done using K-NN and 
Binning. 
b) Classification - Naïve Bayes algorithm is used to 
decide whether to sanction loan to a customer. 
c) Database Updation: The newly found data is added for 
further results.

models used:
a. Logistic Regression 
b. Gradient Boosting 
c. CatBoost Classifier 
d. Random Forest

 we can infer that Gradient Boosting 
and CatBoost Classifier is doing prediction well for our 
dataset. 




-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

references:

2020 International Conference on Data Mining Workshops (ICDMW)

A federated learning based approach for loan defaults prediction
  Geet Shingi
Dept. of Computer Engineering,
Pune Institute of Computer Technology,
Maharashtra, India 

literature :

we propose the use of a federated learning
approach for the task in hand and to overcome the issues
discussed previously. Firstly, the Synthetic Minority Oversampling Technique(SMOTE) [18] approach is proposed to
overcome the class imbalance issue. Secondly, we focus on
a default prediction system protecting data sensitivity, meanwhile, it can be shared with other banks. A decentralized
machine learning algorithm-federated learning with the data

made use of Support Vector Machines(SVM)
for default prediction

 combined
deep learning and genetic programming to enhance the results
in default prediction

Our task is to predict a given loan application into default or
repayable. We explain our solution by describing our approach
for each phase of the standard default prediction pipeline- data
preprocessing, model training, and model architecture


